# Configuration

Before you can use any class of BAV you have to include 
`autoloader/autoloader.php`. BAV uses the autoloader generated by
[PHP-Autoloader](http://php-autoloader.malkusch.de/en/).

BAV comes with a ready to play default configuration. This default configuration
sets the encoding to `UTF-8` (if support is available) and the backend to
`BAV_DataBackend_File`.

You can define your own configuration by calling `ConfigurationRegistry::setConfiguration()`
or preferably creating the file `bav/configuration.php` which returns a `Configuration` object:

```php
use malkusch\bav\DefaultConfiguration;

$configuration = new DefaultConfiguration();

$configuration->setDataBackend(new BAV_DataBackend_PDO($pdo));

return $configuration;
```


# Installation and Update

Visit <http://bav.malkusch.de/> and download the latest version or use [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):

```json
{
    "require": {
        "malkusch/bav": "0.29"
    }
}
```

You have to decide which datastructure you'll use. BAV comes with two
structures:
`BAV_DataBackend_File` and `BAV_DataBackend_PDO`. `BAV_DataBackend_File` (default)
uses the text file which is provided by the Bundesbank. `BAV_DataBackend_PDO` uses 
PHP's PDO-API to connect with a DBS.

If you use BAV the first time you have to create a `BAV_DataBackend` object
(PDO or File) and call the method `install()`. In case of PDO it will create
the tables. `install()` does also call `update()` to synchronize the first time
with the Bundesbank.
You can do this with the script: `bin/bav-install.php`

To keep your database synchronized you have to call `update()`. It will
download the file from the Bundesbank and update your datastructure. The
Bundesbank releases 4 times a year a new file: March, June, September,
December.
You can do this with the script: `bin/bav-update.php`

# Usage

Get a `BAV_DataBackend` object (which has an installed data structure) from
the configuration:

```php
    ConfigurationRegistry::getConfiguration()->getDatabackend();
```

Use the `BAV_DataBackend->getBank($bankID)` to get a `BAV_Bank` object. This
might raise a `BAV_DataBackendException_BankNotFound` if the bank was not
found. If you only want to check if a bank exists you may use
`BAV_DataBackend->bankExists($bankID)`.

You can use the `BAV_Bank` object to get information about the bank. Every
bank has a main agency. You get this `BAV_Agency` object with
`BAV_Bank->getMainAgency()`. A bank might also have some more agencies. These
optional agencies can be fetched with `BAV_Bank->getAgencies()`. Note that the
main agency is not included in this array. So the array
`BAV_Bank->getAgencies()` might even be empty.

A `BAV_Agency` object provides these informations:

* `BAV_Agency->getPostcode()`

* `BAV_Agency->getCity()`

* `BAV_Agency->getName()`

* `BAV_Agency->getShortTerm()`

* `BAV_Agency->hasPAN()`

* `BAV_Agency->getPAN()`

* `BAV_Agency->hasBIC()`

* `BAV_Agency->getBIC()`

The boolean method `BAV_Bank->isValid($accountID)` will tell you if the
account is valid (`true`) or invalid (`false`).

If you use `BAV_DataBackend_PDO` you may use
`BAV_DataBackend_PDO->getAgencies($sql)` to search for `BAV_Agency` objects with
an arbitrary SQL statement. Your statement should at least return the id of
the agencies. You perform better if your statement returns all attributes of
the agency table.

BAV uses UTF-8 as default enconding. So every string
(especialy `BAV_Agency->get*()`) in BAV is UTF-8 encoded. If you intend to
work with those strings you should use PHP's `mb_*` oder `iconv_*` methods.


# Example

You find it in `docs/example.php`.

# Optional Dependencies

You may have:

* **CURL**: `BAV_DataBackend_File->update()` makes usage of the `curl_*` methods.
`BAV_DataBackend_File->update()` is called to download the bank data from
the Bundesbank. This is also needed by `BAV_DataBackend_PDO->update()`. If
you provide data/banklist.txt without using
`BAV_DataBackend_File->update()` you don't need CURL.

* **mbstring or iconv**: BAV works with unicode encoding. Your PHP must have support compiled
in to either the `mb_*` or the `iconv_*` functions. If these functions are
missing BAV works only with the ISO-8859-15 encoding.

* **PDO**: If you intend to use a DBS you need to use `BAV_DataBackend_PDO`. 
`BAV_DataBackend_PDO` needs a `PDO` support compiled in PHP.



# Helping BAV

There exists also the script `bin/verifyImport.php`. You can use this to
import your bank accounts to a data/verify.ini and check them with
`test/ValidatorTest.php`. See the comments in `verifyImport.php` for more
details on usage. If there are errors you can send your verify.ini to
<markus@malkusch.de>. Even if there aren't errors you can send this file, so
we have a larger database of testing accounts for future implementations.
The verify.ini contains only bank accounts with the validation type. There
is no information about the bank id, so the verify.ini can't be abused.

# License and authors

This project is free and under GPL (see gpl.txt). So do what ever you want.
But it would be nice to leave a note about the authors.

The author of the original project which gave the idea to this project is
Björn Wilmsmann. Responsable for this project is Markus Malkusch <markus@malkusch.de>.
